The next thing I can talk a little
bit about is maybe how you
can do routing both on the server
level and on the front end.
So on the server,
routing is pretty straightforward.
You can use a package like express or
happy that provide their
own routing system.
You can roll your own,
which is what I prefer to do with
something like the routes package.
So if you require routes,
then you get a little router that
you can add routes to, so
like router.addRoute/.
And you can pass in whatever variables
you want which is pretty handy I think.
So maybe if you have a route
called user/:name, then I'll just
print out what the name is,
And your new line.
And then to wire up this router, what you
can do is you can just call router.match
with the req., here's another
trick that you can do as well.
If you want HTTP verbs,
you can put them in the route strings.
So if I wanna match on gets,
then I can use the request method.
But when I provide some
data to the router,
request method plus space
plus the request URL.
And then if there is a match,
m is gonna be defined and
the function that you've declared
right here is gonna be set.
So you can pass in whatever
variables you like, so
I'll pass just in the m object
because it's pretty simple.
Otherwise, we can let
ecstatic handle the rest.
So if I run our server again,
it's the same server that was just
hosting WebSockets a minute ago.
If I go to localhost:5000,
I get the the source code in index HTML.
But if I go to /user/substack,
I get a message name=substack.
So that's a really, really simple way
to do routing in pretty much whatever
HTTP server you happen to be running,
but the core server works just fine.
Another nice thing that
you can do is you can use
that library in the browser just as well,
because it's a really simple library.
It only deals with native JavaScripts,
doesn't do anything like talking to
the file system or anything like that.
So it works in in the browser
just fine as well.
If you do put a router in the browser,
it's a good idea to use this
API called history.pushState.
And that lets you update the URL
of the page without actually
navigating to that URL.
So you can, whatever you like in the URL
bar, and it's gonna look like you're
navigating around, but it's gonna
be much faster behind the scenes.
You've probably all used
websites that use that API,
and it's not even obvious
when it's happening.
>> What's that called again?
>> It's called pushState,
like this, history.pushState, yep.
Another trick for
routing in the browser is to,
you can register in a global event
emitter hook on window for click events.
And this thing is gonna be defined
called ev.target on the event object,
and someone clicks a link,
that's gonna be an A tag.
And if ref is defined,
then they would have gone somewhere else.
So you can kind of intercept these links.
And if you can determine that that URL
is either local to your application,
or maybe you also have your router here,
so you could do router.match
to see if there's a match with
that URL on your web service.
If there is one,
you can call ev.preventDefault to sort of
stop the default behavior from happening.
And then you can render,
you could just call pushState and
you could update your browser
code to make it pretty slick.
It's gonna look like you're
navigating around but
you don't have to necessarily do all
of these round trips to a server.
So on a slow connection, that's gonna
be a lot better of a technique to use.